Star Topology

The main premise of a star topology is that devices are individually connected via a central networking device such as a switch or hub. This topology is the most commonly found today because of its reliability and scalability - despite the cost.
For example, this topology is much more scalable in nature, which means that it is very easy to add more devices as the demand for the network increases.

Bus Topology

This type of connection relies upon a single connection which is known as a backbone cable. This type of topology is similar to the leaf off of a tree in the sense that devices (leaves) stem from where the branches are on this cable.
 bus topologies are one of the easier and more cost-efficient topologies to set up because of their expenses, such as cabling or dedicated networking equipment used to connect these devices.
 disadvantage of the bus topology is that there is little redundancy in place in case of failures. This disadvantage is because there is a single point of failure along the backbone cable. If this cable were to break, devices can no longer receive or transmit data along the bus.
Bus Topology
A major flaw in the bus topology is that it can't handle a large amount of data

Ring Topology

The ring topology (also known as token topology) boasts some similarities. Devices such as computers are connected directly to each other to form a loop, meaning that there is little cabling required and less dependence on dedicated hardware such as within a star topology.
A ring topology works by sending data across the loop until it reaches the destined device, using other devices along the loop to forward the data. Interestingly, a device will only send received data from another device in this topology if it does not have any to send itself. If the device happens to have data to send, it will send its own data first before sending data from another device.
A fault such as cut cable, or broken device will result in the entire networking breaking.

What is a Switch?

Switches are dedicated devices within a network that are designed to aggregate multiple other devices such as computers, printers, or any other networking-capable device using ethernet.
These various devices plug into a switch's port. Switches are usually found in larger networks such as businesses, schools, or similar-sized networks, where there are many devices to connect to the network.
Switches can connect a large number of devices by having ports of 4, 8, 16, 24, 32, and 64 for devices to plug into.
Switches are much more efficient than their lesser counterpart (hubs/repeaters).
Switches keep track of what device is connected to which port. This way, when they receive a packet, instead of repeating that packet to every port like a hub would do, it just sends it to the intended target, thus reducing network traffic.

What topology is cost-efficient to set up?
Bus Topology.

What topology is expensive to set up and maintain?
Star Topology.

=|>  IP address is made up of four sections called octets.
=|> Subnets use IP addresses in three different ways:

Identify the network address
Identify the host address
Identify the default gateway

=|> Subnetting provides a range of benefits, including:

Efficiency
Security
Full control

What is the technical term for dividing a network up into smaller pieces?
Subnetting.

How many bits are in a subnet mask?
32.

What is the range of a section (octet) of a subnet mask?
0-255.

What address is used to identify the start of a network?
Network Address.

What address is used to identify devices within a network?
Host Address.

What is the name used to identify the device responsible for sending data to another network?
Dafult Gateway.

=|> Address Resolution Protocol or ARP for short, is the technology that is responsible for allowing devices to identify themselves on a network.
Simply, ARP allows a device to associate its MAC address with an IP address on the network.
Each device on a network will keep a log of the MAC addresses associated with other devices.
When devices wish to communicate with another, they will send a broadcast to the entire network searching for the specific device.
Devices can use ARP to find the MAC address (and therefore the physical identifier) of a device for communication.

Each device within a network has a ledger to store information on, which is called a cache.

What does ARP stand for?
Address Resolution Protocol.

What category of ARP Packet asks a device whether or not it has a specific IP address?
Request.

What address is used as a physical identifier for a device on a network?
MAC Address.

What address is used as a logical identifier for a device on a network?
IP Address.

=|> DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol)

What type of DHCP packet is used by a device to retrieve an IP address?
DHCP Discover.
What type of DHCP packet does a device send once it has been offered an IP address by the DHCP server?
DHCP Request
Finally, what is the last DHCP packet that is sent to a device from a DHCP server?
DHCP ACK.



